# CourseraProject
========
The script for cleaning the data in run_analysis.R outputs its tidy data set containing only the average of the Mean and Standard Deviation variables of the merged Test and Train datasets by going through the following operations:  
Both the plyr and dplyr libraries from R were installed. It is assumed that the file package containing all necessary data has already been downloaded. The data files ("X_train.txt", "y_train.txt", "X_test.txt", "y_test.txt", "subject_test.txt", "subject_train.txt") were loaded using the read.table function. The columns in "y_train.txt" and "y_test.txt" were renamed to 'Activity' using the rename function in the plyr package; the columns in "subject_test.txt" and "subject_train.txt" were also changed, in this way, to 'Subject'.  
Then, labels for each dataset (files "y_train.txt" and "y_test.txt") were merged with their respective datasets through the cbind function, which aligns the data tables by column; the Subject data (files "subject_test.txt" and "subject_train.txt") were also merged into their respective datasets through the same method. The completed separate Test and Train datasets were then merged into one using the rbind function, which is a row counterpart to cbind.  
With the complete, merged dataset, I selected only the relevant columns outlined in the assignment: Subject, Activity, and all variables measuring either average or standard deviation. This returned 68 columns, which were then renamed with human-readable names based on those found in "features.txt" using the rename function, again. This new, renamed dataset was then reordered by the values in the Subject column using the arrange function, so that the numbers 1-30 would be displayed in ascending order. Then, the filter function was used to select only the data from the columns that had Subject equal to 1, and Activity equal to 1. The results from this filter were stored in a variable, and then colMeans was run on that variable, storing the results in a new variable. This was done for all activities for Subject 1, and then repeated through all Subjects. This method generates six rows of averages per Subject, and these were bound into smaller tables for each Subject using rbind. Once all Subjects had smaller tables, those tables were consolidated into a matrix containing only Subject, Activity, and the averages per subject/activity for the previously selected columns. This matrix was then converted into a data frame.  
Finally, the numeric levels in Activity were renamed with the activity names ("walking", "walking_upstairs", etc.) by changing the column to a factor, and using the factor function while taking advantage of its ability to set labels for its levels.
